Well let's see what we can come up with for Jet Pack thrusters effect here.
I'm going to use a relatively new tool in Blender called quick smoke or a quick fire and smoke but let's
go back to the first frame here and let's come up here to this guy and I'll zoom in again.
What I'd like to do is create objects inside the thrusters here that will add the quick fire and smoke
effect onto and then will also parent this object to the root bone here of the neck.
So I'm going to select this and I'm going to zoom in here and select this vertex so that I can snap
the cursor to it.
So I'm going to press shift s and cursor to selected and that snaps that there.
Now I'm going to for the object that we're going to use I'm going to use a cone here and I don't need
this face on the bottom so I will delete it with the x key and then I'll spin it around let me turn
on the manipulators here I want to rotate it in the X 180 degrees so I'll press the R key X and type
in 1 8 0 and then I'm on a scale this down a bit.
So it fits inside of here and maybe even scale it this way.
I like this and let me pull it out so it isn't intersecting at a little big.
So let me scale it down again and move it back in
something like that.
All right.
So I'll give this object a name I'll call it just one and I'll duplicate it and move it over here to
this thruster and I'll call this jet to
go.
These are going to need to be printed to this route bone's so I'll select that the first jet one object
and shift select that bone and press control P and I'll do the same over here.
Control peeing pong.
So now what I can do is select one of these objects and I'm going to go to object.
Quick effects and I'm going to choose quick smoke.
Now what that does is it gives it the smoke style here.
But what I want to do is change this immediately to smoke and fire.
Now I want to select this and come over here to the physics tab and make sure that it says fire and
smoke here as well.
Another thing you need to make sure of that if you select this box around the object this is the smoke
domain you should be able to see this in the Noad Ed..
So I'm just going to with that selected switch over to the Noad editor here and if I change to object
we should see all of this.
So what that quick smoke style does is it creates this entire node network.
And the important part about this is is that you need to see this color ramp here if you didn't if you
don't see this then you need to probably try again just undo and try again.
It can be kind of touchy.
So when you select the domain you need to see this node network.
All right.
So going to go back to the 3D view here.
And one of the things also we need to do is parent this domain to this bone as well.
So when a press control P and parent Tabone.
So now as we move it all of these come along and you can see the flame beginning here as we scroll through
so if I hit play.
Let me go back to the camera view here.
If I hit playing you should be able to see the fire and smoke in the viewport here.
The problem is that it's going up and we need it to be thrusting downward.
So let's go back to the beginning here again and to do that.
Just a quick way to do that is to create a force.
So I'm going to de-select everything I'll go back to object mode here and de-select everything.
And I want to create a new polygon plane and that will be our wind force so I'll create a plane and
I'll scale it up so we can see it a bit and I can just move it up out of the way here.
So this is going to be our wind plane.
I'll go ahead and give it a name I'll call this wind.
And for the physics effect that we want we want a force field and we want to immediately change that
type from force to wind.
Now you can see these circles up at the top here.
If I increase the strength you can see those circles will kind of expand to show us the strength.
I'm going to give this a strength of I don't know 50.
We'll try that.
And I want to rotate this as well so I'll press R X type in 180 and that'll spin it around.
So now that wind force should help move the thrusters down.
So now let's go back to our camera view and let's hit play.
Now we can see it being blown downward as if it's thrusting out of the jetpack.
All right.
Let's go back and let's just do a test render and see how that looks.
I'm going to do it right about here.
Go to the rendered viewport shading and see how it looks.
Well OK it's looking pretty good.
That's not too bad.
Let's go ahead and set up the same thing for the other side as well.
So I'm going to slide this other object here and I'll go to object quick effects quick smoke immediately
make sure that it says smoke and fire over here.
And when I select that object I also liked it here in the outliner.
I need to make sure it says fire and smoke here as well.
So that if I select this domain I'll go to the note editor and make sure that I see this node set up.
And so we should be ok now.
So I'll go back to my 3-D view and I need to parent this domain to the root bone.
I better go to select this and go to pose mode first then de-select everything.
Now select that domain shift's select the root bone.
So it's in PPO's mode and control P and parent that to the bone.
Now let's go back to our camera view and see how this works.
Right.
So there we have our two thrusters.
So the next thing we need to do is figure out when it needs to turn off because he shouldn't have these
on when he drops down.
So let's go back and see when that should turn off.
Maybe right about right or right in here.
So when he hit the arrow key and go back to chest
there that's where he begins to drop that's 182.
I'm thinking maybe he should kind of hover for about six frames after the Jets go off.
Let's try that.
So at this point is when they should go off which means at this point one more frame back that's when
we should put that anchor keyframe in with it on.
Let's grab this one here and it's going to be I'm going to keyframe both the density and the flame rate
here.
So at this point I'll say it's going to be one inserted keyframe here and insert a keyframe here.
I will also go back to frame 1 and insert keyframes there.
Now if I come to this point and go forward one frame now I'm going to change these to zero.
Like so and insert keyframes here as well so insert a key frame there and insert a key frame there.
Now theoretically that should turn it off at that point.
Let's give it a try here.
I will go back and we'll try it.
So if he comes in comes down well now it needs to refresh it.
Sometimes we'll do this.
Let me exit out of that camera view and try and save and see if I can get this to refresh.
There they are.
OK.
So I'll go back to my camera view.
Hit Play.
So there they are.
And it goes off.
Good.
So I'll do that for the other one as well.
Let's go back to that frame so that was 175 there and I'll choose jet 2.
And here I'll insert a key frame here and here.
Then go all the way back and I'll do the same thing.
Insert keyframes there.
And then at 176 we zero these out and Key them
inserting keyframes there.
So now I'll try and move around save to refresh.
Go back to my camera view.
Let's go back to the beginning and let's it play.
We still can't see our thrusters there.
Let me go back up here and we see them up here.
Yeah.
OK.
They're there.
Now we hit play again.
We see them there on down through here.
They turn off and he drops.
Good.
That's what we want.
So in the next video we'll actually begin adjusting the settings to begin rendering out the animation.